NOTES.md, before:

# Notes

## 1. Spring web
- **DispatcherServlet** - Front Controller Pattern
    - it would map the request to the right controller
    - Auto Configuration (DispatcherServletAutoConfiguration)

- How does an object get converted to JSON?
  - @ResponseBody + JacksonHttpMessageConverters
    - Auto Configuration (JacksonHttpMessageConvertersConfiguration)

- Who is configuring error mapping?
  - Auto Configuration(ErrorMvcAutoConfiguration)

- How are all jars available (Spring, Spring MVC, Jackson, Tomcat)
  - Starter Projects - Spring Boot Starter Web (spring-webmvc, spring-web, spring-boot-starter-tomcat, spring-boot-starter-json)

- Build URI from current request, or servletMapping, or context
  - User ServletUriComponentsBuilder
    - Example: ```URI location = ServletUriComponentsBuilder.fromCurrentRequest()
      .path("/{id}")
      .buildAndExpand(savedUser.getId())
      .toUri();```

- Handle exception
  - `@ControllerAdvice` for class
  - `@ExceptionHandler` for method
  - read `ResponseEntityExceptionHandler`

- Documentation
  - springdoc

- Content Negotiation
  - Same Resource - Same URI. However, Different Representations
  - Example: XML or JSON, English or Vietnamese
  - Example: XML use dependency `jackson-dataformat-xml`

- Internationalization - i18n
  - Accept-Language in Header
  - use `org.springframework.context.MessageSource`
  - to get Locale: use `LocaleContextHolder`

- Versioning REST API
  - Options: 
    - URL Versioning - Twitter: /v1/person, /v2/person
    - Request Params Versioning - Amazon: /person?version=1, /person?version=2
    - Header Versioning - Microsoft: X-API-VERSION=1
    - MediaType Versioning - Github - aka Content Negotiation - Accept Header
      - same URL, produces=application/vnd/company.app-v1+json
      - same URL, produces=application/vnd/company.app-v2+json
  - Factors to consider
    - URI Pollution, Misuse of HTTP Headers, Caching, Can use on the browser?, API Documentation -> No Perfect Solution
      
## Chrome extension
- Talend API tester

Commit message:

feat: add _links by HATEOAS to UserResource get User by id

NOTES.md, after:

# Notes

## 1. Spring web
- **DispatcherServlet** - Front Controller Pattern
    - it would map the request to the right controller
    - Auto Configuration (DispatcherServletAutoConfiguration)

- How does an object get converted to JSON?
  - @ResponseBody + JacksonHttpMessageConverters
    - Auto Configuration (JacksonHttpMessageConvertersConfiguration)

- Who is configuring error mapping?
  - Auto Configuration(ErrorMvcAutoConfiguration)

- How are all jars available (Spring, Spring MVC, Jackson, Tomcat)
  - Starter Projects - Spring Boot Starter Web (spring-webmvc, spring-web, spring-boot-starter-tomcat, spring-boot-starter-json)

- Build URI from current request, or servletMapping, or context
  - User ServletUriComponentsBuilder
    - Example: ```URI location = ServletUriComponentsBuilder.fromCurrentRequest()
      .path("/{id}")
      .buildAndExpand(savedUser.getId())
      .toUri();```

- Handle exception
  - `@ControllerAdvice` for class
  - `@ExceptionHandler` for method
  - read `ResponseEntityExceptionHandler`

- Documentation
  - springdoc

- Content Negotiation
  - Same Resource - Same URI. However, Different Representations
  - Example: XML or JSON, English or Vietnamese
  - Example: XML use dependency `jackson-dataformat-xml`

- Internationalization - i18n
  - Accept-Language in Header
  - use `org.springframework.context.MessageSource`
  - to get Locale: use `LocaleContextHolder`

- Versioning REST API
  - Options: 
    - URL Versioning - Twitter: /v1/person, /v2/person
    - Request Params Versioning - Amazon: /person?version=1, /person?version=2
    - Header Versioning - Microsoft: X-API-VERSION=1
    - MediaType Versioning - Github - aka Content Negotiation - Accept Header
      - same URL, produces=application/vnd/company.app-v1+json
      - same URL, produces=application/vnd/company.app-v2+json
  - Factors to consider
    - URI Pollution, Misuse of HTTP Headers, Caching, Can use on the browser?, API Documentation -> No Perfect Solution

- HATEOAS
  - abbreviation of 'Hypermedia as the Engine of Application State'
  - How to enhance API to perform subsequent actions?
    - Option 1: Custom format and implementation
    - Option 2: Use Standard Implementation
      - **HAL** (JSON Hypertext Application Language)
      - HATEOAS generate HAL for API
  - `spring-boot-starter-hateoas`
  <details>
  <summary>Example</summary>
  
  ```
    EntityModel<User> entityModel = EntityModel.of(user);
    WebMvcLinkBuilder link = WebMvcLinkBuilder.linkTo(WebMvcLinkBuilder.methodOn(this.getClass()).findAllUsers());
    entityModel.add(link.withRel("all-users"));
  ```
  </details>
  
## Chrome extension
- Talend API tester
